---
layout: post
title:  "How Google Works"
date:   2016-12-04 15:04:44 -0800
categories: books
tags: [interview, google]
---

This is a short note on the
book ["How Google Works"](http://www.howgoogleworks.net/). After I had
avoided purchasing at many airports, I noticed there was a copy in my
local public library. I thought it would be interesting to read,
**after** I'd been through the Google interview process.

The book was published in 2014, although they had been working on it
for a few years, however I don't think it is too far out of date. It's
a pretty quick read, and there wasn't too much I had not already heard
about in the industry,
like [Hiring: The Lake Wobegon Strategy][wobegon]. I managed to skim
read it in a couple of nights.

[wobegon]: https://research.googleblog.com/2006/03/hiring-lake-wobegon-strategy.html

Interesting notes
-----------------

From the chapter "Talent", section "Hire learning animals":

> Most people, when they are hiring for a role, look for people who
> have excelled in that role before. This is not how you find a
> learning animal.

As they go on to quote Einstein:

> I have no special talents. I am only passionately curious.

It's funny, I often say that I'm only bring two things to a role:
"literacy and diligence". It seems to be have done me quite well so
far.

However, I cannot reconcile what was written in the book, with what I
experienced.

I was looking for a career pivot, to do something slightly different
than pure "device" networking, but something still in infrastructure.

In general terms, the feedback that I received was that I was lacking
experience of large scale distributed systems, which is true, that was
what I was interested in learning. At no point was I asked about my
previous networking experience, so feels like a contradiction with
what the book says...

I should say that the Google hiring experience is excellent. I really
felt like I gave the best I could do on the day, but I wonder in
retrospect if it would have made more sense to apply for a role that I
would already be strong in, and make a transition internally.
