---
layout: post
title:  Interview Tips
categories: career
tags: [interview, advice]
---

This is meta-level post, about technique or general strategy for a
tech interview. It's not good enough to know **all** the material, you
have to be able to get the interviewer to believe that too!

As the problem is being explained, be sure to make mental, or better
yet, whiteboard notes on the corner. Ask questions up front, to expand
the problem and your double-check your understanding. Repeat back the
question in the way **you** understood it. This will help ensure you
start to answer the **actual** question they asked.

Always explain **what** youâ€™re doing and **why**, give the explanation
of the algorithm and then start coding. You probably do not have the
time to pseudo code the algorithm, unless it is going to be a
complicated one.

When blog posts out there say *"state any assumptions"*, I now realise
what they mean. Even if you think you know the "answer" they are
looking for, don't just slowly work towards it, you may be **wrong**
and *run out of time*.

Just say:

> I think this will be the answer, but let me see if I can prove it!

If you were right, great for you! They may let you continue then at
some point say "I see you're heading to the right answer, lets move on
to something else". If you never mentioned it, you wouldn't be able to
short-cut that question.

If your answer was wrong, they may guide you in a different way,
sparing you that lost time. Take those hints they give you, or any
pieces of information you are not using. Ask, "what am I not seeing
about this". They only tell you pertinent pieces of information, so
use them.

If the interviewer repeats a point that you haven't used yet, it must
be critical for some reason, ask if you are going in the wrong way.

Remember that like TV or Radio, you need to be talking all the time as
you are coding and thinking. No dead-air time. If you are not
verbalising what you are doing, they don't know, they can't help, and
they may loose interest.

The only way to work on these skills in advance, is with a friendly
coach. Find a peer to work with.
